All right my friends in this video we're going to start writing some code.
The first thing we're going to do is to make sure that we can reach out to the old DB API and do a search
or some different movies.
That's a very core operation inside of our app.
So we should probably make sure that we can get that working right away to make use of this free API.
I'm going to first navigate to OMD API dot com inside my browser once here.
We first have to sign up for the API and get what is called an API key.
The API key essentially identifies us to the API whenever we make a request.
We can think of it as like an email and password that our code is sending over to the API to get an
API key.
We're gonna go to the very top menu and find the section that says API key.
It is free to generate an API key.
All we have to do is enter in our email address.
So going to select the free option right here and then I will enter in my email.
It does have to be a valid email because they're going to email us our key.
I'll put in my email my name and for use right here.
We're just being asked to enter a description of what we are building.
So I'm going to say that this is API practice doesn't really matter what we put in there.
I'll then submit this and then I'll be told that there we go.
I'm going to be sent a verification link to my email.
So you're going to now open up your email account and you're going to find an email that was just sent
to you I'm going to pull up my email really quickly.
Here it is right here.
You'll see that I am given my API key.
That is essentially my password right there.
And it identifies me to the API before we can use that key.
We do have to clean click the link at the bottom of the email to make sure that you do click that link
right there.
Now I'm told that my key has been activated OK.
Very good.
So make sure you keep that key up on your screen.
We're going to use it in just a moment.
Before we use the key however let's take another look at the documentation for this API and get a better
idea of how we do a search operation so I'm going to go back to the main page and then scroll down a
little bit.
So to access the API we're going to make a request to that your URL right there when we make the request.
We have to include the API key that we just signed up with in order to customize the request.
We're going to also pass in some number of different query string parameters.
Remember remember parameters are essentially added on to the very end of a your L..
We're going to be using a library that is going to add in these different parameters for us automatically
but to do a search operation we'll scroll down to the search section and we are being told right here
that if we add in a query string parameter called S and assign it some string that is going to be interpreted
as the movie title that we are trying to search for so this documentation is not the most clear in the
world but that's OK well let's go back over to our code editor and we're going to start to write out
some code to make a search request and this documentation will very quickly start to make sense.
So back inside my code editor I've already opened up my index dot J.S. file I'm going to delete that
console log that was inside there by default we're going to be making a network request here remember
that with JavaScript there are many different ways we can make a network request we can use the built
in batch function that is included inside the browser or we can make use of third party libraries like
the access library that makes making requests just a little bit easier.
In this case we're going to be using axioms again just because it makes our life a little bit easier
than using fetch directly Acciona has already been wired up to this project you can find it referenced
in a script tag inside of the index dot each GMO file though in order to make our request I'm going
to first define a helper function and I'm going to call batch data I'm going to want to use the async
await syntax with this thing when we make our request I'm going to mark the function as async and then
inside the function body I will write out const response is a weight axis dot get to remember the first
argument to the axial stock function is going to be the URL that we want to retrieve whenever we make
a network request that is an asynchronous operation and we essentially have to wait before we get some
kind of response to continue running the lines of code directly underneath that and that's why we have
the await keyword right there we're going to eventually get back a response object that is an object
that represents all the information related to this request in response that we've just made and inside
of that response object is the data that we should be getting back from our API so as the first argument
to axial stop get going to go back over to the API documentation going to find where it says usage and
I'm going to put in this URL right here now.
Really important.
We're not going to copy in the API key part just yet.
So I'm just gonna get each TTP OMD API dot com I'm just gonna copy that and then put it in as the first
argument.
So again make sure you only have dot com inside there.
Like so then to specify all the different parameters here like our API key or the search string that
we want to use we're going to use some automated functionality inside of axioms.
So we could manually type out question mark API key blah blah blah right there but instead using axioms
we can write this out a lot more neatly by putting in a second argument of an object inside the second
argument we're going to put in a property called Ram's and inside this thing we're going to list out
all the different query string parameters that we want to pass along with the request so we can imagine
that this object right here is going to be turned into a string and appended to the end of that you
are L inside a parameter we're going to first list out our API key are really important.
Notice that we have a lowercase key on here it is not uppercase.
So everything is lowercase and then I'm going to put in the API key that I just got from my email a
moment ago.
So here's the API key right they're going to copy it and paste it in I'm also going to specify that
s property s essentially stands for search.
That is the property we just looked up on the API documentation.
So this is going to be a string of the movie that we want to search for.
I'm going to first try looking for the Avengers so I'll put in Avengers like so okay.
And that should be it.
That should be all we need to make our request.
Now if this prams object right here is a bit mysterious.
Don't sweat it.
As soon as we make the request and look at it inside of our browser you're going to very quickly understand
what that part is all about.
OK.
So after we make the request I'll then do a console dot log of response dot data.
Again remember that whenever we make a request with axes This is an object that has a lot of different
properties inside of it that describe the request and response we've just issued.
The only property that we usually care about is the data property and that's the actual information
that we just got back from that API.
All right.
So I'll save this one less thing.
Let's make sure we call fetch data at the bottom.
It's going to save this now put back to where the browser I'm going to go back to my index Dot.
Each team page open up my console and then refresh and sure enough right away I see a response from
that API.
Now if you do not see a response right here if you instead see some kind of error message make sure
first off that you have in fact activated your API key so that you went into your email and clicked
on that link.
Secondly make sure that you've got a lowercase API key right here.
Make sure you've got the correct URL right there.
And essentially just do a direct comparison of this file the inside of this response object that we
got back.
We have a search property and inside there are all the different movies that match the search string
that we've just provided.
So I'm seeing a lot of different movies with the word Avengers in the title.
One thing I want to point out here is you'll notice that we are just getting back a couple of different
properties about each movie.
So I'm only seeing the title the type whether it is a movie or a TV show or something similar.
The year that it was released the idea of the movie and then very interestingly right here a link to
the image for the movie as well.
I copy that and throw it into my browser really quickly I'll see the poster.
So this is what we're going to eventually show for each individual movie.
Now one last thing I want to show you inside of my network request log by open that up I can search
by x H R requests and this will show me only the request that my javascript code have issued.
So there's a request we just made to the API if I click on headers right here it will show me the bullet
request you are out.
So you'll notice that axioms took that parameter object that we passed in to that configuration object.
It took the API key property and its value and the s property and its value and it stuck them automatically
into the URL as a query string.
So again this is what is kind of nice about using axioms if we were using fetch we would have had to
form that string by ourselves by hand not the worst thing in the world.
But again just a nice little benefit to using the axial library okay.
So now we've got some data.
I know this is a long video don't worry future videos will definitely be shorter for the most part.
So let's take a pause right here and we're going to start to investigate our data that we just fetched
a little bit more.